[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 1: So 2017, the
soon-to-be so last year.
So I'm excited about 2018.
I've been thinking about
some of the web features that
are going to be discussed or
specced or landing around then.
I want to try and describe one
of them to you in two minutes.
You can ask me questions.
My subject is transform streams.
SPEAKER 2: Transform streams.
We have readable stream
and writable stream.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: What is
it, transform stream?
SPEAKER 1: Well,
a readable stream
is a thing you can create
and data comes out of it.
SPEAKER 2: You can read from it.
SPEAKER 1: You can read from it.
You can see where
the name comes from.
Writable stream,
you can write to it.
SPEAKER 2: Amazing.
SPEAKER 1: Nothing comes
out, it's just an endpoint.
SPEAKER 2: Where does it go?
SPEAKER 1: Well, when
you define the writable,
you can get access
to this stuff.
SPEAKER 2: To define the
other side with code?
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
Whereas a transform
stream, the object you get
is pretty simple.
It's just an object with
a readable and a writable.
SPEAKER 2: So it's both?
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
It's one object
that has both on.
You have an object where
dot readable is literally
a readable stream, dot writable,
literally a writing stream.
And stuff goes into the writable
and comes out the readable,
usually changed in some way.
SPEAKER 2: And you can define
how this change is happening?
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
So there is a
constructor for it,
like a new transform stream.
And you pass in the details of
how to do buffering and such.
And then you have a function
that receives chunks of data in
and you can push.
SPEAKER 2: So basically in the
middle, it transforms the data?
SPEAKER 1: Exactly.
SPEAKER 2: Amazing.
SPEAKER 1: And this is a
huge thing for the web,
because it's what we
can start defining
a lot of platform-level
features on.
Because it those
stuff in the browser
that we don't have
access to, like gzip.
All browsers do it.
SPEAKER 2: I guess
that's a transform.
You put in clear text
and out comes compressed.
SPEAKER 1: Well, it
will probably be bytes.
SPEAKER 2: I mean,
it might clear text.
It's clear bytes, and out
come compressed bytes.
SPEAKER 1: Well, fine.
OK, fair enough.
But also things like
image compression,
because all browsers
do this for Canvas.
So you know what, if we could
push bytes in, get bytes out,
RTC has video codecs,
the same business.
So this should expose all
of that to the platform.
SPEAKER 2: That
would be so good.
SPEAKER 1: 2018, exciting.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Go.
SPEAKER 2: Workers.
SPEAKER 1: I'm aware of them.
SPEAKER 2: They're existing.
They have been existing
for a long time,
but I think we need
to start using them.